## Herschel-ATLAS Data Release III

In Chapter 2, we presented the third data release of the *Herschel*-ATLAS, where we used the well-established Likelihood Ratio method to identify near-IR counterparts from the VISTA VIKING survey.

-   We estimated that the fraction of *Herschel* detected galaxies that have an associated counterpart on the near-IR images is approximately 83%. From a total of 193,527 sources in the South Galactic Pole field, 110,374 (57%) were reliably matched to a VIKING galaxy with a probability of being the true identification > 80%. The probability of such an association was calculated using the ratio between the likelihood of the true counterpart being found in the vicinity of the *Herschel* source, and the likelihood of a background interloper being found in the same location with the same $K_s$-band magnitude.
    
- The expected false identification rate of our Bayesian analysis, that is the percentage of *Herschel* sources where we might expect to have matched erroneously with a VIKING counterpart, was approximately 5%. Despite this, the completeness of our SGP sample was 78%, which represents the fraction of *Herschel* sources where we have secure far-IR and near-IR detections that we were able to recover.

- We searched for gravitational lensing events in the SGP field. The most efficient way to select strong lensing events is to target the brightest sources since the number counts of unlensed sources falls rapidly beyond ~100 mJy at 500 um (e.g. Vieira et al., 2010; Wardlow et al., 2013; Nayyeri et al., 2016; Negrello et al., 2017). We presented 41 bright candidates in the SGP, 11 of which had not previously been catalogued as strongly lensed galaxies (SLGs), suggesting that the surface density of SLGs is ~0.14 deg2. Following this, we suggested a new method for predicting the number of lensing events in a blank field using the photometric redshifts of the *Herschel* source and their optical/IR counterparts. We estimated that ~6,000 lensing events might be present in the ~300 deg2 field. This is higher than predicted by galaxy evolution models (e.g. Negrello et al., 2007; Cai et al., 2013), which we attribute to the inclusion of weak gravitational lensing events, not currently accounted for in models.
